  The Congress makes the following findings:
  (1) The Congress recognizes that the People's Republic of China will resume
  sovereignty over Hong Kong on July 1, 1997 under the 1984 Sino-British
  Joint Declaration on the Question of Hong Kong. The Congress recognizes
  that the United Kingdom will be responsible for the administration of Hong
  Kong until June 30, 1997.
  (2) The Congress recognizes that under the Joint Declaration the Hong Kong
  Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China will enjoy
  a high degree of autonomy on all matters other than defense and foreign
  affairs after July 1, 1997. The United States recognizes that the People's
  Republic of China will be responsible for the defense and foreign affairs
  of Hong Kong thereafter.
  (3) The Congress welcomes that under the Joint Declaration the Hong Kong
  Special Administrative Region will be vested with executive, legislative and
  independent judicial power, including the power of final adjudication. The
  Congress also welcomes the implementation of the `one country, two systems'
  policy, under which Hong Kong will retain its current lifestyle and legal,
  social, and economic systems until at least the year 2047.
  (4) The Congress welcomes that under the Joint declaration the legislature
  of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region will be constituted by
  elections and that the provisions of the International Covenant on Civil
  and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social
  and Cultural Rights as applied to Hong Kong shall remain in force.
  (5) The Congress welcomes that the basic policy of the People's Republic
  of China towards Hong Kong, as stated in the Joint Declaration and the
  Basic Law, is to allow the people of Hong Kong to rule Hong Kong with a
  high degree of autonomy in furtherance of the principle of `one country,
  two systems'.
  (6) The Congress recognizes the important role that Hong Kong plays in
  the regional and world economy today. The Congress declares that it wishes
  to see the full implementation of the Joint Declaration so that Hong Kong
  can continue as an international economic and trade center.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
  For purposes of this Act--
  (1) the term `Hong Kong, China' means the reference to Hong Kong required
  by the Joint Declaration after June 30, 1997;
  (2) the term `Joint Declaration' means the Joint Declaration of the
  Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
  and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the Question of
  Hong Kong, done at Beijing on December 19, 1984; and
  (3) the term `PRC' means the People's Republic of China.
TITLE I--UNITED STATES POLICY
SEC. 101. BILATERAL TIES BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND HONG KONG.
  It is the sense of the Congress that the following should be the policy of
  the United States with respect to its bilateral relationship with Hong Kong:
  (1) The United States should actively seek to establish direct bilateral
  ties with Hong Kong in economic, trade, financial, monetary, shipping,
  communications, touristic, cultural, sport, and other appropriate matters to
  the extent that Hong Kong is allowed to exercise autonomy in these fields
  under the Joint Declaration, and to maintain and expand those ties after
  July 1, 1997.
  (2) The United States should seek to maintain after July 1, 1997, with
  the authorization of the Government of the PRC (as required by the Joint
  Declaration), the United States Consulate-General in Hong Kong, along with
  other official and semi-official organizations, such as the United States
  Information Agency American Library.
  (3) The United States should invite Hong Kong to maintain, after July
  1, 1997, its official and semi-official missions in the United States,
  such as the Hong Kong Economic & Trade Office and the Hong Kong Tourist
  Association. The United States should invite Hong Kong to open and maintain
  other official or semi-official missions in those fields in which Hong
  Kong is permitted to exercise autonomy under the Joint Declaration. After
  July 1, 1997, such offices should operate under the name `Hong Kong, China'.
  (4) The United States should actively seek to reach appropriate agreements
  with the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in those fields in which
  Hong Kong is permitted to exercise autonomy under the Joint Declaration. In
  particular, the United States, consistent with its immigration laws,
  including procedures of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, should
  actively seek to negotiate and conclude agreements with Hong Kong tending
  to reduce or abolish visa restrictions, particularly those formalities
  which hinder United States nationals seeking to work in Hong Kong and
  covering Hong Kong residents seeking to work in the United States.
  (5) The United States should recognize passports and travel documents
  issued by the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
  (6) The PRC's resumption of the exercise of sovereignty over Hong Kong
  should not affect treatment of Hong Kong residents who apply for visas to
  visit the United States.
SEC. 102. PARTICIPATION BY HONG KONG IN MULTILATERAL ORGANIZATIONS.
  It is the sense of the Congress that the following should be the policy of
  the United States with respect to participation by Hong Kong in multilateral
  organizations:
  (1) The United States should support Hong Kong's participation in
  multilateral organizations open to non-states which are concerned with
  those matters in which Hong Kong is permitted to exercise autonomy under
  the Joint Declaration. After July 1, 1997, such participation should be
  under the name `Hong Kong, China'.
  (2) The United States should continue to fulfill its obligations to Hong
  Kong under international agreements, so long as Hong Kong reciprocates,
  regardless of whether the PRC is a party to the particular international
  agreement, unless and until such obligations are modified or terminated
  according to specified procedures.
  (3) The United States should support Hong Kong's application to join all
  multilateral international conferences, agreements, and organizations,
  such as the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum (APEC), for which
  it is eligible under both the Joint Declaration and the organization's
  bylaws. After July 1, 1997, such applications should be under the name
  `Hong Kong, China'.
  (4) The United States should support Hong Kong's continued participation
  after July 1, 1997, under the name `Hong Kong, China', in all multilateral
  international conferences, agreements, and organizations, such as the
  General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), in which it participates
  on June 30, 1997, whether or not the PRC participates.
SEC. 103. COMMERCE BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND HONG KONG.
  It is the sense of the Congress that the following should be the policy
  of the United States with respect to commerce between the United States
  and Hong Kong:
  (1) The United States should seek to maintain and expand economic and
  trade relations with Hong Kong and should continue to treat Hong Kong as
  a separate territory in economic and trade matters, such as import quotas
  and certificates of origin.
  (2) The United States should continue to negotiate directly with Hong
  Kong to conclude bilateral economic agreements. After July 1, 1997, the
  United States should negotiate directly with Hong Kong, under the name
  `Hong Kong, China', to conclude bilateral economic agreements.
  (3) The United States should continue to treat Hong Kong as a territory
  which is fully autonomous from the United Kingdom and, after July 1, 1997,
  should treat Hong Kong as a territory which is fully autonomous from the
  PRC, for economic and trade matters.
  (4) The United States should continue to consider Hong Kong for
  most-favored-nation trade status by virtue of Hong Kong's membership in
  the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT).
  (5) The United States should continue to recognize certificates of origin
  for manufactured goods issued by the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
  (6) The United States should continue to allow the United States dollar
  to be freely exchanged with the Hong Kong dollar.
  (7) United States businesses should continue to operate in Hong Kong,
  in accordance with applicable United States and Hong Kong law.
  (8) The United States should continue to support Hong Kong's access to
  sensitive technologies in accordance with COCOM rules, provided that the
  United States is satisfied that such technologies remain in Hong Kong.
  (9) The United States should encourage Hong Kong to continue its efforts
  to develop a framework which provides adequate protection for intellectual
  property rights.
  (10) The United States should negotiate directly with Hong Kong, in
  consultation with the PRC, a bilateral investment treaty.
SEC. 104. TRANSPORTATION.
  It is the sense of the Congress that the following should be the policy
  of the United States with respect to transportation from Hong Kong:
  (1) Recognizing Hong Kong's position as an international transport center,
  the United States should continue to recognize ships and airplanes registered
  in Hong Kong and should negotiate air service agreements directly with
  Hong Kong.
  (2) The United States should continue to recognize ships registered by
  Hong Kong under the name `Hong Kong, China' after July 1, 1997.
  (3) United States commercial ships, in accordance with applicable United
  States and Hong Kong law, should remain free to port in Hong Kong.
  (4) The United States should continue to recognize airplanes registered
  by Hong Kong, in accordance with applicable laws of the PRC.
  (5) The United States should recognize licenses issued by the Hong Kong
  Special Administrative Region to Hong Kong airlines.
  (6) The United States should recognize permits issued by the Hong Kong
  Special Administrative Region to United States airlines for services which
  travel to, from, or through Hong Kong and which do not travel to, from,
  or through other parts of the PRC.
  (7) The United States should negotiate at the appropriate time directly with
  the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, acting under authorization from
  the Government of the PRC, to renew or amend all air service agreements
  existing on June 30, 1997, and to conclude new air service agreements
  affecting all flights to, from, or through other parts of the PRC. The
  United States should negotiate at the appropriate time directly with the
  Government of the PRC to renew or amend all air service agreements existing
  on June 30, 1997, and to conclude new air service agreements affecting
  all flights which travel to, from, or through other parts of the PRC,
  whether or not the flight also travels to, from, or through Hong Kong.
  (8) The United States should negotiate directly with the Hong Kong Special
  Administrative Region about arrangements to implement international
  aviation agreements, in effect on June 30, 1997, or which the Hong Kong
  Special Administrative Government enters after July 1, 1997, with the
  authorization of the Central People's Government of the PRC.
SEC. 105. CULTURAL AND EDUCATIONAL EXCHANGES.
  It is the sense of the Congress that the following should be the policy
  of the United States with respect to cultural and educational exchanges
  with Hong Kong:
  (1) The United States should seek to maintain and expand United States-Hong
  Kong relations and exchanges in culture, education, science, and academic
  research. The United States should encourage American participation in
  bilateral exchanges with Hong Kong, both official and unofficial, in
  those fields in which Hong Kong is permitted to exercise autonomy under
  the Joint Declaration.
  (2) The United States should actively seek to further United States-Hong
  Kong cultural relations and promote bilateral exchanges, including the
  negotiating and concluding of appropriate agreements in these matters.
  (3) The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region should be accorded individual
  status as a full partner in the Fulbright Program (apart from Britain prior
  to July 1, 1997 and apart from the PRC thereafter), with establishment of
  a Fulbright Commission or functionally equivalent mechanism.
  (4) The United States should actively encourage Hong Kong residents to travel
  to the United States for such purposes as business, tourism, education,
  and scientific and academic research, in accordance with applicable United
  States and Hong Kong law.
  (5) The Congressional Research Service of the Library of Congress should
  seek to expand educational and informational ties with the Legislative
  Council of Hong Kong.
TITLE II--THE STATUS OF HONG KONG IN UNITED STATES LAW
SEC. 201. THE STATUS OF HONG KONG IN UNITED STATES LAW.
  (a) On and after July 1, 1997, the United States shall continue to treat
  Hong Kong as a separate territory under United States law in those matters,
  such as immigration quotas, in the same manner as it does on June 30, 1997.
  (b) All United States laws which apply to Hong Kong on June 30, 1997,
  shall continue to apply after July 1, 1997, unless and until amended or
  repealed according to law.
  (c) The PRC's resumption of the exercise of sovereignty over Hong Kong
  shall not affect United States obligations under law to Hong Kong.
  (d) For all purposes, including actions in any court in the United States,
  the Congress approves the continuation in force of all treaties and other
  international agreements, including multilateral conventions, entered into
  by the United States and Hong Kong before July 1, 1997, unless and until
  terminated in accordance with law.
  (e) For all purposes under the laws of the United States, including actions
  in any court in the United States, resumption of sovereignty by the PRC
  over Hong Kong shall not affect in any way the ownership of or other rights
  or interests in any property, tangible or intangible, or any other thing
  of value, owned or held in the United States on or before July 1, 1997,
  or thereafter acquired or earned by the Hong Kong Government or Hong Kong
  residents and held in the United States.
  (f) The capacity of Hong Kong to sue and be sued in courts in the United
  States, in accordance with the law of the United States, shall not be
  abrogated, infringed, modified, denied, or otherwise affected in any way
  by the resumption of sovereignty by the PRC over Hong Kong.
TITLE III--REPORTING PROVISIONS
SEC. 301. REPORTING REQUIREMENT.
  Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, and every
  12 months thereafter, the Secretary of State, after consultation with the
  United States Trade Representative and the Secretary of Commerce, shall
  transmit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the Chairman of
  the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report on the degree to
  which the Joint Declaration is being implemented in Hong Kong. The report
  should also discuss the state of United States-Hong Kong bilateral ties
  and the implementation of the Hong Kong policy set forth in this Act,
  in particular--
  (1) the state of United States-Hong Kong bilateral ties, including
  economic ties;
  (2) the nature and extent of Hong Kong's participation in multilateral
  forums;
  (3) the current state of United States-Hong Kong ties in transportation
  matters;
  (4) the nature and extent of United States-Hong Kong cultural, education,
  scientific and academic exchanges, both official and unofficial;
  (5) the current status of Hong Kong under United States law; and
  (6) other matters affecting United States interests in Hong Kong and United
  States-Hong Kong relations.
SEC. 302. SUBREPORT.
  When compiling country reports on such subjects as economic relations
  and human rights, the Secretary of State shall transmit to the Speaker of
  the House of Representatives and the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign
  Relations of the Senate a separate subreport on Hong Kong.
